Getting Started Without Composer
================================

There are some situations when using Composer for dependency management
isn't a viable option. In such cases, it is possible to
get by with cloning two git repositories and setting up a simple
PSR-4 autoloader.

This is of course the "advanced path" for getting started, so if you are
not comfortable with git, it is recommended that you get Composer up and running.

## Create Your Vendor Directory

The conventional path for third-party dependencies is `vendor/` in the
root of your project. However, any path will do, as long as it is
read-accessible to PHP.

Create this directory, and if it's something other than `vendor/`, simply
substitute it accordingly in the following explanation.

Next, you will need to clone a few dependencies. The first is the FireText SDK, the next few are the Laminas Hydrator component and it's dependencies, these power certain
operations in the SDK.

### Clone the SDK

In your vendor directory, run `git clone https://github.com/FireText/FireText-PHP-SDK.git`

### Clone The Dependencies

Now to clone the dependencies, run `git clone https://github.com/laminas/laminas-hydrator.git Laminas/Hydrator` then run `git clone https://github.com/laminas/laminas-stdlib.git Laminas/StdLib`.

Finally, run `git clone https://github.com/webmozarts/assert.git Webmozart/Assert`.

### Create SplClassLoader

`SplClassLoader` is a PSR-4 autoloader, recommended as the standard
implementation by the PSR working group.
The implementation is available at https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-4-autoloader-examples.md#class-example

Create a file called `SplClassLoader.php` in your `vendor/` directory, and
place the `SplClassLoader` code there.

## autoload.php

Lastly, create your autoload file for these dependencies. In a file called
`autoload.php`, in your vendor directory, place the following code:

```php
<?php
require(__DIR__.'/SplClassLoader.php');

$loader = new Example\Psr4AutoloaderClass;
$loader->register();

$loader->addNamespace('FireText', __DIR__.'/FireText-PHP-SDK/src/FireText');
$loader->addNamespace('Laminas\Hydrator', __DIR__.'/Laminas/Hydrator/src');
$loader->addNamespace('Laminas\StdLib', __DIR__.'/Laminas/StdLib/src');
$loader->addNamespace('Webmozart\Assert', __DIR__.'/Webmozart/Assert/src');
```

## Include the autoloader

Depending upon the framework - or lack thereof - that you're utilizing for
your project, you will need to place an `include` or `require` statement
that references the `autoload.php` file that you created above.

An example would be:

```php
<?php
require_once(__DIR__.'/vendor/autoload.php');
```

Once the autoloader is included in your project, you will be able to
continue as indicated in the remainder of the documentation.
