Getting Started
===============

The FireText API provides an interface for developers to communicate with and
control their FireText.co.uk account via a simple HTTP protocol. Most everything
that is available via the web interface is also available via this API, allowing
you to automate your use of FireText efficiently.

This library provides a set of PHP classes to interface with the API. Please
refer to the [API Documentation](https://www.firetext.co.uk/docs)
for reference information on the underlying protocol, authentication scheme, and
response formats.

If you are unable to utilize the Composer dependency management tool, please
refer to [Getting Started Without Composer](getting-started/01.without-composer.md).

## Very Basic Example

```php
use FireText\Api;
require 'vendor/autoload.php';

$apiKey = 'YOUR_API_KEY';

$client = new Api\Client(new Api\Credentials\ApiKey($apiKey));

$message = 'FireText is outstanding and really easy to use!';
$from = 'NoReply';
$to = '07700900123';

$request = $client->request('SendSms', $message, $from, $to);

$result = $client->response($request);

if($result->isSuccessful()) {
    echo "Sent {$result->getCount()} messages".PHP_EOL;
} else {
    throw $result->getStatus()
        ->getException();
}
```

## Multiple Example Requests

```php
use FireText\Api;
require 'vendor/autoload.php';

$apiKey = 'YOUR_API_KEY';

$client = new Api\Client(new Api\Credentials\ApiKey($apiKey));

$message = 'FireText is outstanding and really easy to use!';
$from = '07700900123';
$to = '07700900456';
$schedule = (new DateTime)->add(new DateInterval('PT24H')); // 24 hours from now
$callback = 'https://example.net/receipt';
$reference = 'MyRef123';

$request = $client->request('SendSms', $message, $from, $to);
$request->setSchedule($schedule);
$request->setReceipt($callback);
$request->setReference($reference);

$result = $client->response($request);

$messageId = $result->isSuccessful() ? $result->getHeader('X-Message') : '';

if($messageId) {
    echo "Credits used to schedule message#$messageId was {$result->getCount()}".PHP_EOL;
}

// Fetch scheduled messages 
$request = $client->request('ScheduledMessages');
foreach($client->response($request)->getItems() as $data) {
    echo "Message#{$data->getMessageId()} scheduled for '{$data->getScheduledFor()}'".PHP_EOL;
}

// Fetch sent messages
$request = $client->request('SentMessages');
foreach($client->response($request)->getItems() as $data) {
    echo "Message#{$data->getMessageId()} sent on '{$data->getSentOn()}'".PHP_EOL;
}

// Poll for a delivery report later
$request = $client->request('DeliveryReport', $messageId);
$request->setReference($reference); // If messageId is ''
$result = $client->response($request);
if($result->isSuccessful() && $result->getCount()>0) {
    $data = current($result->getItems());
    echo "{$data->getMobile()} Status {$data->getStatus()} on {$data->getMessageUpdate()}".PHP_EOL;
}

// Unschedule a message
$request = $client->request('Unschedule', $messageId);
$request->setReference($reference); // If messageId is ''
$result = $client->response($request);
if($result->isSuccessful()) {
    echo "Unscheduled message $messageId | reference $reference".PHP_EOL;
}
```

There are a few simple conventions used in this SDK which you should familiarize
yourself with, as they reduce the amount of boilerplate code you will need to
write for executing each operation.

### Authentication

The first thing to note is how credentials are provided to the API client. The
`Api\Credentials\Login` class accepts two parameters in its constructor - your
FireText.co.uk username and password.  
This instance of the credentials can then be passed as the parameter to
the `Api\Client` constructor. By doing this, any requests that you create using
the API client will be populated with your credentials automatically.  
This way, you can simply instantiate the API client once, and then pass that
around to any area of your codebase that needs it, without having to keep track
of your credentials.

There are multiple types of authentication credentials available:

#### Login

As shown above, the `Login` credentials accept a username and password, which
is provided to the API for each request you perform.

#### ApiKey

An API key can be generated from FireText, which will allow you to
authenticate your API requests without using your login credentials. For
security, this is the preferred approach.

### Creating Requests

The next thing to note is that the API client class has a `::request` method
available. The first parameter corresponds to the name of a class in the
`FireText\Api\Request` namespace. Using this method, the API credentials you
specified earlier will be populated automatically into the request instance.  
The remaining parameters to the `::request` method are those that need to be
passed directly to the constructor of the request.

Each request class may also take a set of optional parameters, which can be
populated using the setter methods. You can also override the parameters that
you specified in the constructor this same way.

### Retrieving Results

The request class that you have instantiated and populated with your request
parameters can then be passed to the `Client::response` method, which will
execute and parse the response. Alternatively, the execution and parsing can be separated as below.

#### Executing Requests

The request class that you have instantiated and populated with your request
parameters can be passed to the `Client::execute` method, which will
serialize the request into the format required by the API for the method it
represents, and invoke that API method. The raw results will be returned from
this method, should you need to inspect them, or parse them in a way not
supported by this SDK.

#### Parsing Responses

These raw results can then by passed to the `::response` method on your request
object, which will parse the results based on the type of response known
to be returned by that specific API method. The return value of this method
depends on the request type, but it will be one of the classes in the
`FireText\Api\Response` namespace.

### Processing Results

Each `Response` type has a status property indicating the result of the
operation. The type of this property is `FireText\Api\Resource\Status`. It
indicates the result code and any provided error message. The `Result` types
themselves have an `::isSuccessful` method to quickly check whether the
operation succeeded. Response headers can be retrieved using the `::getHeader` method.

### Result Types

#### Count

A `Count` result is, as you probably guessed, a simple count of something. It
has a status and count property. The count property is a simple integer.

#### Resource

A `Resource` result encapsulates a resource such as a `Contact` requested via
the `ContactInfo` request. The resource itself can be retrieved from the
`::getItem` method.

#### ResourceList

A `ResourceList` is like a `Resource` result, but with multiple items, such
as for the `SentMessages` request. Similarly, an array of resources can be
retrieved from the `::getItems` method.

#### Success

A `Success` response only contains a status property, indicating whether the
operation succeeded.
